# PyBer_Analysis

Written Analysis for pyber_challenge
In part 1 of the challenge, I created a summary DataFrame (pyber_ride_summary_df) from the merged ride and city DataFrames. The rows were broken down in to City Type- Rural, Suburban, and Urban. The columns were split into Total Rides, Total Drives, Total Fares, Average Fare per Ride, and Average Fare per Driver. The total rides, drives, and fares all increased as the city type moved from rural to urban; however, the average fare per driver and per ride decreased from rural to urban. 
Part 2 of the challenge asked for a line chart which shows the fares by city type throughout the months of January-April 2019. The highest fares were in urban areas, ranging from approximately $2,000 to $2,500. The middle fares were in suburban areas, ranging form approximately $700 to $1,500. Lastly, the lowest fares were in rural areas, ranging from approximately $100 to $500. The chart shows steep increases or decreases in each area about mid-month. It also shows that when the urban fares increase sharply, the suburban and rural fares are more likely to decrease. 
The DataFrame shows that the larger urban areas have more demand for rides and drivers because of the larger population. The average prices in the urban areas can also be lower because there are more drivers available. The prices could also be lower because of the distance traveled, city riders could be only be traveling a few blocks whereas rural riders might have longer distances to travel-which increases the price of the ride. The sharp increases in fares, especially in urban areas, occur in the spring months which could be due to increased tourism and warmer weather (people actually want to leave their houses). While the fares stayed within about a $700 range for each area, the greatest fluctuations occurred in urban areas. This means that the drivers in urban areas are the most at risk of losing money and have to compete for rides more.  
